III. Summary of Final Action on Issues Reconsidered

The five reconsideration issues for which amendments are being
finalized in this rulemaking are: (1) Definitions of startup and
shutdown; (2) alternative PM standard for new oil-fired boilers that
combust low-sulfur oil; (3) establishment of a subcategory and separate
requirements for limited-use boilers; (4) provision that eliminates
further performance testing for PM for certain boilers based on their
initial compliance test; and (5) provision that eliminates further fuel
sampling for Hg for certain coal-fired boilers based on their initial
compliance demonstration. Each of these issues is discussed in detail
in the following sections of this preamble.

A. Definitions of Startup and Shutdown In the February 1, 2013, final amendments to the Area Source
Boilers Rule, the EPA finalized revisions to the definitions of startup
and shutdown, which were based on the time during which fuel is fired
in the affected unit for the purpose of supplying steam or heat for
heating and/or producing electricity or for any other purpose.
Petitioners asserted that the public lacked an opportunity to comment
on the amended definitions and that the definitions were not
sufficiently clear. In response to these petitions, in the January 21,
2015, proposed notice of reconsideration (80 FR 2871), we solicited
comment on the definitions of startup and shutdown that were
promulgated in the February 2013 final rule as well as additional
revisions we proposed to make to those definitions. Specifically, we
proposed to revise the February 2013 definition of startup to include
an alternate definition of startup. The alternate definition clarified
when startup begins for new boilers to address pre-startup testing
activities that are done as part of installing a new boiler and when
startup ends for first-ever startups as well as startups occurring
after shutdown events. The alternate definition of startup as well as
the definition of shutdown incorporated a new term ``useful thermal
energy'' to replace the term ``steam and heat'' to address petitioners'
concerns of an ambiguous end of the startup period.
In this action, the EPA is adopting two alternative definitions of
``startup,'' consistent with the proposed rule. The first definition
defines ``startup'' to mean the first-ever firing of fuel, or the
firing of fuel after a shutdown event, in a boiler for the purpose of
supplying useful thermal energy for heating and/
