ADDRESSES: Documents mentioned in this preamble are part of docket
USCG-2013-0361. To view documents mentioned in this preamble as being
available in the docket, go to http://www.regulations.gov , type the
docket number in the ``SEARCH'' box and click ``SEARCH.'' Click on Open
Docket Folder on the line associated with this rulemaking. You may also
visit the Docket Management Facility in Room W12-140 on the ground
floor of the Department of Transportation West Building, 1200 New
Jersey Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20590, between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m.,
Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: If you have questions about this rule,
call or email Lieutenant Junior Grade Blake Morris, Eleventh Coast
Guard District Prevention Division, Waterways Management Branch, U.S.
Coast Guard; telephone 510-437-3801, email [email protected] . If
you have questions on viewing or submitting material to the docket,
call Cheryl Collins, Program Manager, Docket Operations, telephone 202-
366-9826.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Table of Acronyms

DHS Department of Homeland Security
FR Federal Register
NPRM Notice of Proposed Rulemaking

A. Regulatory History and Information On November 18th, 2013, we published a NPRM entitled Special Local
Regulations: Eleventh Coast Guard District Annual Marine Events, in the
Federal Register (78 FR 69007). We received no comments on the NPRM, or
a request for public meeting. A public meeting was not held.

B. Basis and Purpose The Coast Guard is conducting this rulemaking under the authority
of 33 U.S.C. 1233.
Specific marine events are annually held on a recurring basis on
the navigable waters within the Eleventh Coast Guard District and
require special local regulations to keep spectators and vessels a safe
distance away from the vessels and individuals that are participating
in the specified events. These events include sailing regattas,
powerboat races, rowboat races, parades, and swim events. Some of these
marine events are not currently listed in 33 CFR part 100, sections
1101, 1102 and 1104 or many of the annual events that are listed in
these sections do not correctly reflect the date or approximate date of
the event or do not correctly identify other important information
specific to the event.
The effect of these special local regulations will be to restrict
general navigation in the vicinity of the events, from the start of
each event until the conclusion of that event. Except for persons or
vessels authorized by the Coast Guard Patrol Commander, no person or
vessel may enter or remain in the regulated area. These regulations are
needed to keep spectators and vessels a safe distance away from the
specified events to help ensure the safety of participants, spectators,
and transiting vessels.
