allocated stocks, which caps overall mortality. It is possible that a
higher net limit for Day gillnet vessels participating in this program
could result in an increase in the number of gillnets in the water at
one time and, therefore, potentially increase interactions with
protected species. However, potential negative impacts to protected
species from this exemption are expected to be low because additional
nets may result in greater efficiency that could decrease the overall
number of soak hours throughout the year as a sector's ACE is caught
faster, thus potentially reducing interactions with protected species.
In addition, sector vessels utilizing this exemption are still required
to comply with all requirements of the Harbor Porpoise Take Reduction
Plan (75 FR 12698; March 17, 2010) and Atlantic Large Whale Take
Reduction Plan (73 FR 58942; October 8, 2008). The GOM sink gillnet
mesh exemption is approved for Northeast Fishery Sectors II and III, V-
VIII, and X-XII, the Sustainable Harvest Sector, the Port Clyde
Community Groundfish Sector, the GB Cod Fixed Gear Sector and the Tri-
State Sector.

2. 120-Day Block Requirement Out of the Fishery for Day Gillnet Vessels

The 120-day block requirement out of the fishery for Day gillnet
vessels was implemented to help ensure that management measures for Day
gillnet vessels were comparable to effort controls placed on other
fishing gear types, given that gillnets continue to fish as long as
they are in the water. Regulations at Sec. 648.82(j)(1)(ii) require
that each NE multispecies gillnet vessel declared into the Day gillnet
category declare out and be out of the non-exempt gillnet fishery for
120 days each fishing year. Each period of time taken must be a minimum
of 7 consecutive days, and at least 21 of the 120 days must be taken
between June 1 and September 30. This exemption was previously approved
for the GB Cod Fixed Gear Sector, Sustainable Harvest Sector, Port
Clyde Community Groundfish Sector, Tri-State Sector, and Northeast
Fishery Sectors III and XI, based upon the rationale that this measure
was designed to control fishing effort and, therefore, is no longer
necessary for sectors because sectors are restricted to an ACE for each
groundfish stock, which limits overall fishing mortality resulting from
sector operations. Approval of this exemption for additional sectors
would increase the operational flexibility of sector vessels and is
expected to increase profit margins of sector fishermen. For additional
information on this exemption, please refer to the description of this
exemption in the proposed and final rules approving FY 2010 sector
operations plans (74 FR 68015 and 75 FR 18113, respectively). This
exemption is approved for seven additional sectors: Northeast Fishery
Sectors II, V-VIII, X, and XII.
