lifetime and annual dollar limits. A State plan that provides both
medical/surgical benefits and mental health or substance use disorder
benefits must comply with paragraph (c)(1), (2), or (4) of this
section. (1) Plan with no limit or limits on less than one-third of all
medical/surgical benefits. If a State plan does not include an
aggregate lifetime or annual dollar limit on any medical/surgical
benefits or includes an aggregate lifetime or annual dollar limit that
applies to less than one-third of all medical/surgical benefits, it may
not impose an aggregate lifetime or annual dollar limit, respectively,
on mental health or substance use disorder benefits. (2) State plans with a limit on at least two-thirds of all medical/
surgical benefits. If a State plan includes an aggregate lifetime or
annual dollar limit on at least two-thirds of all medical/surgical
benefits, it must either--
(i) Apply the aggregate lifetime or annual dollar limit both to the
medical/surgical benefits to which the limit would otherwise apply and
to mental health or substance use disorder benefits in a manner that
does not distinguish between the medical/surgical benefits and mental
health or substance use disorder benefits; or
(ii) Not include an aggregate lifetime or annual dollar limit on
mental health or substance use disorder benefits that is more
restrictive than the aggregate lifetime or annual dollar limit,
respectively, on medical/surgical benefits. (For cumulative limits
other than aggregate lifetime or annual dollar limits, see paragraph
(d)(3)(iii) of this section prohibiting separately accumulating
cumulative financial requirements.)
(3) Determining one-third and two-thirds of all medical/surgical
benefits. For purposes of this paragraph (c), the determination of
whether the portion of medical/surgical benefits subject to an
aggregate lifetime or annual dollar limit represents one-third or two-
thirds of all medical/surgical benefits is based on the dollar amount
of all plan payments for medical/surgical benefits expected to be paid
under the State plan for the State plan year (or for the portion of the
plan year after a change in plan benefits that affects the
applicability of the aggregate lifetime or annual dollar limits). Any
reasonable method may be used to determine whether the dollar amount
expected to be paid under the State plan will constitute one-third or
two-thirds of the dollar amount of all plan payments for medical/
surgical benefits. (4) Plan not described in this section--(i) In general. A State
plan that is not described in paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section
for aggregate lifetime or annual dollar limits on medical/surgical
benefits, must either--
(A) Impose no aggregate lifetime or annual dollar limit, as
appropriate, on mental health or substance use disorder benefits; or
(B) Impose an aggregate lifetime or annual dollar limit on mental
health or substance use disorder benefits that is no more restrictive
than an average limit calculated for medical/surgical benefits in the
following manner. The average limit is calculated by taking into
account the weighted average of the aggregate lifetime or annual dollar
limits, as appropriate, that are applicable to the categories of
medical/surgical benefits. Limits based on delivery systems, such as
inpatient/outpatient treatment or normal treatment of common, low-cost
conditions (such as treatment of normal births), do not constitute
categories for purposes of this paragraph (c)(4)(i)(B). In addition,
for purposes of determining weighted averages, any benefits that are
not within a category that is subject to a separately-designated dollar
limit under the plan are taken into account as a single separate
category by using an estimate of the upper limit on the dollar amount
that a plan may reasonably be expected to incur for such benefits,
taking into account any other applicable restrictions under the plan. (ii) Weighting. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(4), the
weighting applicable to any category of medical/surgical benefits is
determined in the manner set forth in paragraph (c)(3) of this section
for determining one-third or two-thirds of all medical/surgical
benefits. (d) Parity requirements for financial requirements and treatment
limitations--(1) Clarification of terms--(i) Classification of
benefits. When reference is made in this paragraph (d) to a
classification of benefits, the term ``classification'' means a
classification as described in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section. (ii) Type of financial requirement or treatment limitation. When
reference is made in this paragraph (d) to a type of financial
requirement or treatment limitation, the reference to type means its
nature. Different types of financial requirements include deductibles,
copayments, coinsurance, and out-of-pocket maximums. Different types of
quantitative treatment limitations include annual, episode, and
lifetime day and visit limits.
