C. What Are the Limits of This Exclusion?

This exclusion applies to the waste described in Valero's petition
only if the requirements described in 40 CFR part 261, Appendix IX,
Table 1 and the conditions contained herein are satisfied.

D. How Will Valero Manage the Waste, When Delisted?

The delisted F037 Storm Water Basin Sediment will be dispose of in
a Subtitle D landfill which is permitted, licensed, or registered by a
State to manage industrial waste.

E. When Is the Final Delisting Exclusion Effective?

This rule is effective March 10, 2010. The Hazardous and Solid
Waste Amendments of 1984 amended section 3010 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C.
6930(b)(1), allow rules to become effective in less than six months
after the rule is published when the regulated community does not need
the six-month period to come into compliance. That is the case here
because this rule reduces, rather than increases, the existing
requirements for persons generating hazardous waste. This reduction in
existing requirements also provides a basis for making this rule
effective immediately, upon publication, under the Administrative
Procedure Act, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 553(d).

F. How Does This Final Rule Affect States?

Because EPA is issuing this exclusion under the Federal RCRA
delisting program, only States subject to Federal RCRA delisting
provisions would be affected. This would exclude States which have
received authorization from EPA to make their own delisting decisions.
EPA allows States to impose their own non-RCRA regulatory
requirements that are more stringent than EPA's, under section 3009 of
RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6929. These more stringent requirements may include a
provision that prohibits a Federally issued exclusion from taking
effect in the State. A dual system (that is, both Federal (RCRA) and
State (non-RCRA) programs) may regulate a petitioner's waste, EPA urges
petitioners to contact the State regulatory authority to establish the
status of their wastes under the State law.
EPA has also authorized some States (for example, Louisiana,
Oklahoma, Georgia, Illinois) to administer a RCRA delisting program in
place of the Federal program, that is, to make State delisting
decisions. Therefore, this exclusion does not apply in those authorized
States unless that State makes the rule part of its authorized program.
If Valero transports the petitioned waste to or manages the waste in
any State with delisting authorization, Valero must obtain delisting
authorization from that State before it can manage the waste as
nonhazardous in the State.
