\1\ Federal Trade Commission: Automotive Fuel Ratings,
Certification and Posting: Request for Public Comments, 74 FR 9054
(Mar. 2, 2009) (``RPC'').
\2\ Federal Trade Commission: Automotive Fuel Ratings,
Certification and Posting: Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 75 FR
12470 (Mar. 16, 2010) (``NPRM'').
\3\ The Rule already provides requirements for ethanol fuels
with at least 70 percent concentration, E85. That fuel generally
contains 85 percent ethanol mixed with 15 percent gasoline. 16 CFR
306.0(i)(2)(ii).
\4\ Biodiesel fuels include pure biodiesel and biomass-based
diesel, as well as blends of those fuels with conventional diesel.
Biodiesel is a diesel fuel produced by transforming animal fat or
vegetable oil into automotive fuel. Biodiesel serves as a diesel
substitute and is usually blended with diesel for sale at retail
pumps. Biomass-based diesel is a larger category of diesel fuel
substitutes produced from nonpetroleum renewable resources and that
meet the registration requirements for fuels and fuel additives
established by the Environmental Protection Agency. Biodiesel is a
subset of biomass-based diesel. For further background on biodiesel
fuels, see the Commission's announcement of amendments expanding the
Rule to cover those fuels. Federal Trade Commission: Automotive Fuel
Ratings, Certification and Posting: Final Rule on Biodiesel
Labeling, 73 FR 40154 (Jul. 11, 2008) (``Biodiesel Fuel
Rulemaking'').

Commenters supported the proposed octane rating method, suggested
allowing an additional octane rating method, objected to several
aspects of the proposed ethanol labeling requirements, argued for
revision of the Rule's biodiesel fuel provisions, and recommended
further miscellaneous changes. Below, the Commission responds to those
comments and announces final amendments that allow an alternative
octane rating method.
The final amendments do not address ethanol fuel labeling. Instead,
the Commission will address this issue at a later date. As discussed
below, commenters criticized the proposed labels, supporting different
or additional disclosures to prevent misfueling. Moreover, after the
comment period closed, the Environmental Protection Agency (``EPA'')
issued a waiver pursuant to the Clean Air Act that allows use of
ethanol-gasoline blends of up to 15 percent ethanol concentration
(``E15'') in certain conventional vehicles, subject to EPA approval. In
light of the comments and EPA's waiver decision, the Commission finds
that more time is necessary to address this issue. The Commission,
however, will not delay final rulemaking regarding the proposed
alternate octane rating method and biodiesel fuels because announcing
final decisions regarding both is in the public interest.
This document first provides background on the Fuel Rating Rule,
then discusses the comments submitted. Finally, it responds to those
comments and describes the final amendments in detail.
