FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: If you have questions on this
temporary deviation, call or email David Frank, Bridge Administration
Branch, Coast Guard; telephone 504-671-2128, email
[email protected] . If you have questions on viewing the docket,
call Cheryl F. Collins, Program Manager, Docket Operations, telephone
202-366-9826.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A member of the Louisiana State Legislature
requested a temporary deviation from the operating schedule on the
Louisiana State Route 23 (SR 23) vertical lift span bridge, also known
as the Judge Perez Bridge, across the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway
(Algiers Alternate Route), mile 3.8, at Belle Chasse, Plaquemines
Parish, Louisiana. The deviation requested allows the bridge to remain
closed to navigation for an additional one hour in the evening, Monday
through Friday, for two months. This same deviation was effective from
early March 2014 through April 2014, and no issues resulted.
The Louisiana Legislature requested this deviation due to a change
in the work schedule and increased work force related to a major plant
reconstruction at the Conoco/Phillips Refinery in Alliance. During this
change, a temporary deviation will assist in the safe movement of
vehicular traffic across the bridge and will also help to minimize the
effects of the additional traffic on local residents.
Presently, in accordance with 33 CFR 117.451(b), the draw shall
open on signal; except that, from 6 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and from 3:30
p.m. to 5:30 p.m. Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays, the
draw need not open for the passage of vessels.
This temporary deviation allows the vertical lift bridge to remain
closed to navigation for one additional hour in the afternoon. This
additional hour extends the afternoon curfew hours to 6:30 p.m. Monday
through Friday beginning December 26, 2014 through February 20, 2015.
In case of an emergency, the bridge will be able to open for the
passage of vessels.
The State Route 23 vertical lift span drawbridge across the Gulf
Intracoastal Waterway (Algiers Alternate Route), mile 3.8, at Belle
Chasse, Louisiana has a vertical clearance of 40 feet above mean high
water in the closed-to-navigation position and 100 feet above mean high
water in the open-to-navigation position. Navigation on the waterway
consists primarily of tugs with tows, commercial fishing vessels, and
occasional recreational craft. Mariners may use the Gulf Intracoastal
Waterway (Harvey Canal) to avoid unnecessary delays. The Coast Guard
has coordinated this closure with the Gulf Intracoastal Canal
Association (GICA). The GICA representative indicated that the vessel
operators will be able to schedule transits through the bridge to avoid
delays and significant impacts on operations. Due to prior experience,
as well as coordination with waterway users, it has been determined
that this closure will not have a significant effect on these vessels.
In accordance with 33 CFR 117.35, the draw bridge must return to
its regular operating schedule immediately at the end of the effective
period of this temporary deviation. This deviation from the operating
regulations is authorized under 33 CFR 117.35.
