C. Liability for Discriminatory Housing Practices: Sec. 100.7

a. Direct Liability for One's Own Discriminatory Conduct: Sec.
100.7(a)(1)(i)
Issue: A commenter stated that the language in Sec.
100.7(a)(1)(i), which states that a person is directly liable for the
person's own conduct that results in a discriminatory housing practice,
may lead to the liability of innocent actors and third-parties who
somehow contributed to an illegal discriminatory action. The commenter
gave as an example a situation in which a person supplied the pen that
a housing provider used to make notes on an application that the
housing provider later rejected because of a protected characteristic
of the applicant.
HUD Response: The rule creates no new or enhanced forms of
liability. As discussed in the preamble of the proposed rule, Sec.
100.7(a)(1)(i) does nothing more than restate the most basic form of
direct liability, i.e., that a person is directly liable for his or her
own discriminatory housing practices, as defined by the Act. Whether a
person's conduct constitutes a discriminatory housing practice under
sections 804-806 or 818 of the Act depends upon the specific facts.
b. Direct Liability for Negligent Failure To Correct and End
Discrimination: Sec. 100.7(a)(1)(ii) and (iii)
Issue: Several commenters expressed concern about the ``should have
known'' standard in proposed Sec. 100.7(a)(1)(ii) and (iii), which
states that a person is directly liable for ``(ii) [f]ailing to take
prompt action to correct and end a discriminatory housing practice by
that person's employee or agent, where the person knew or should have
known of the discriminatory conduct,'' and ``(iii) [f]ailing to fulfill
a duty to take prompt action to correct and end a discriminatory
housing practice by a third-party, where the person knew or should have
known of the discriminatory conduct . . . '' (emphasis added).
Some commenters stated that this standard creates almost certain
liability for landlords and that requiring actual knowledge would be
more fair to property owners because liability would only attach for
failing to act on known discrimination. A commenter stated that the
final rule should limit liability where a housing provider has limited
knowledge of misconduct. In contrast, other commenters stated that the
``knew or should have known'' standard is reasonable and consistent
with the Fair Housing Act, legal negligence principles, and business
practices of housing providers. One commenter complained that the
proposed rule appears to require actual knowledge, even though the
standard only requires that a defendant ``should have known'' of the
harassment.
Commenters asked HUD to clarify how a housing provider ``should
have known'' about harassment, especially in the context of tenant-on-
tenant harassment. A commenter questioned what the housing provider
needs to know before liability attaches and whether the housing
provider needs to know that the harasser's actions violate the Fair
Housing Act or only that the harasser took some action toward the
victim. Several commenters expressed concern that a PHA might be liable
when a housing voucher holder is harassed but neither the apartment
owner nor voucher holder informs the housing agency about the
harassment. One commenter expressed a similar concern that owners
living in another city or state may not learn that harassment is taking
place on their property unless the tenant tells the owner, and another
commenter asked about a PHA's potential liability when harassment
occurs over the internet but is unknown to the housing agency.
HUD Response: The ``knew or should have known'' standard is well
established in civil rights and tort law.\27\ A housing provider
``should have known'' of the harassment of one resident by another when
the housing provider had knowledge from which a reasonable person would
conclude that the harassment was occurring. Such knowledge can come
from, for example, the harassed resident, another resident,
