SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Table of Acronyms

CFR Code of Federal Regulations
DHS Department of Homeland Security
FR Federal Register
NPRM Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
ANPRM Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
Sec. Section
U.S.C. United States Code

A. Regulatory History and Information On January 25, 2012, we published an Advance Notice of Proposed
Rulemaking (ANPRM), entitled Drawbridge Operation Regulation;
Sacramento River, CA in the Federal Register (77 FR 3664). On August
10, 2012, we published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM), entitled
Drawbridge Operation Regulation, Sacramento River, CA, in the Federal
Register (77 FR 47789). No public meeting was requested, and none was
held.

B. Basis and Purpose The Freeport Drawbridge is a swing span style drawbridge at mile
46.0, over

the Sacramento River, owned by the County of Sacramento and maintained
by Sacramento and Yolo counties. The drawbridge provides 190 feet
horizontal clearance, 29 feet of vertical clearance for vessels above
Mean High Water in the closed-to-navigation position and unlimited
vertical clearance when open. The Sacramento River is legally navigable
for bridge permitting purposes from its confluence with Suisun Bay to
mile 245.0 at Red Bluff, CA.
Sacramento and Yolo counties submitted a joint request for a
permanent change to the Freeport Drawbridge operating requirements,
with support from Congressman Mike Thompson. The change is to address
the misalignment between drawbridge staffing and openings for vessels.
The bridge owner has provided bridge operating statistics showing
significantly less drawspan operations during certain months and
evening hours in 2009-2010, than nearby bridges at Georgiana Slough,
Tyler Island and Walnut Grove. The statistical information and a
detailed explanation by the bridge owner have been included in the
docket (USCG-2011-1138-0003 & 0004) and are available for public
review. The bridge owner performed significant outreach to various
waterway user organizations including the Pacific Inter-Club Yacht
Association, the Recreational Boaters of California, the Capital City
Yacht Club, the Sacramento Yacht Club, River View Yacht Club and
Hornblower Cruises.
