Authority and Issuance Accordingly, for the reasons stated in the preamble, FHFA revises
part 1204 of chapter XII of title 12 of the Code of Federal Regulations
to read as follows:

PART 1204--PRIVACY ACT IMPLEMENTATION Sec.
1204.1 Why did FHFA issue this part?
1204.2 What do the terms in this part mean?
1204.3 How do I make a Privacy Act request?
1204.4 How will FHFA or FHFA-OIG respond to my Privacy Act request?
1204.5 What if I am dissatisfied with the response to my Privacy Act
request?
1204.6 What does it cost to get records under the Privacy Act?
1204.7 Are there any exemptions from the Privacy Act?
1204.8 How are records secured?
1204.9 Does FHFA or FHFA-OIG collect and use Social Security
numbers?
1204.10 What are FHFA and FHFA-OIG employee responsibilities under
the Privacy Act?
1204.11 May FHFA-OIG obtain Privacy Act records from other Federal
agencies for law enforcement purposes?

Authority: 5 U.S.C. 552a. Sec. 1204.1 Why did FHFA issue this part?

The Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) issued this part to--
(a) Implement the Privacy Act, a Federal law that helps protect
private information about individuals that Federal agencies collect or
maintain. You should read this part together with the Privacy Act,
which provides additional information about records maintained on
individuals;
(b) Establish rules that apply to all FHFA and FHFA Office of
Inspector General (FHFA-OIG) maintained systems of records retrievable
by an individual's name or other personal identifier;
(c) Describe procedures through which you may request access to
records, request amendment or correction of those records, or request
an accounting of disclosures of those records by FHFA or FHFA-OIG;
(d) Inform you, that when it is appropriate to do so, FHFA or FHFA-
OIG automatically processes a Privacy Act request for access to records
under both the Privacy Act and FOIA, following the rules contained in
this part and in FHFA's Freedom of Information Act regulation at part
1202 of this title so that you will receive the maximum amount of
information available to you by law;
(e) Notify you that this part does not entitle you to any service
or to the disclosure of any record to which you are not entitled under
the Privacy Act. It also does not, and may not be relied upon, to
create any substantive or procedural right or benefit enforceable
against FHFA or FHFA-OIG; and
(f) Notify you that this part applies to both FHFA and FHFA-OIG.
