This final rule also affirms the information contained in the
interim rule concerning Executive Orders 12866, 12372, and 12988.
Further, this action has been determined to be not significant for
the purposes of Executive Order 12866 and, therefore, has not been
reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget.

Regulatory Flexibility Act This final rule follows an interim rule that amended the
regulations to reduce the amount of testing required to maintain Class
Free status for States that have been Class Free for 5 or more years
and have no Brucella abortus in wildlife. The interim rule also removed
the provision for automatic reclassification from Class Free to Class A
if two or more herds are found to have brucellosis within a 2-year
period or if a single brucellosis-affected herd is not depopulated
within 60 days. One of the changes that the interim rule made to the
brucellosis regulations contained in 9 CFR part 78 was to require that
all sexually intact cattle and bison 6 months of age and older be
included in all herd blood tests. This final rule changes the age at
which all sexually intact cattle and domestic bison are included in
herd blood tests from 6 months to 18 months.
With this rule, producers will forgo payment of testing fees for
sexually intact animals between 6 and 18 months of age when performing
whole herd tests. For both elective and program-required herd blood
tests, increasing the minimum testing age will benefit producers by (i)
reducing the number of animals required to be tested and therefore the
time and labor expended in gathering and handling animals for testing,
and (ii) eliminating any stress-induced weight loss related to herd
blood testing of sexually intact animals between 6 and 18 months of
age. In recent years, about 500,000 head of cattle have been included
in herd blood tests annually. Approximately 70 to 80 percent of this
testing has been elective.
Based on Small Business Administration standards and data from the
2012 Census of Agriculture, the majority of beef and dairy operations
are small. This rule will result in cost savings for many of these
operations, and will not have a significant economic impact on a
substantial number of small entities.
Under these circumstances, the Administrator of the Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that this action will
not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small
entities.
