for the existing use and rounded up to the nearest multiple of 5%. The Agency believes that the three conditions discussed in Unit
III.C.1.iv. have been met. With respect to Condition a, PCT estimates
are derived from Federal and private market survey data, which are
reliable and have a valid basis. The Agency is reasonably certain that
the percentage of the food treated is not likely to be an
underestimation. As to Conditions b and c, regional consumption
information and consumption information for significant subpopulations
are taken into account through EPA's computer-based model for
evaluating the exposure of significant subpopulations including several
regional groups. Use of this consumption information in EPA's risk
assessment process ensures that EPA's exposure estimate does not
understate exposure for any significant subpopulation group and allows
the Agency to be reasonably certain that no regional population is
exposed to residue levels higher than those estimated by the Agency. Other than the data available through national food consumption
surveys, EPA does not have available reliable information on the
regional consumption of food to which fenbuconazole may be applied in a
particular area. 2. Dietary exposure from drinking water. The Agency used screening-
level water exposure models in the dietary exposure analysis and risk
assessment for fenbuconazole in drinking water. These simulation models
take into account data on the physical, chemical, and fate/transport
characteristics of fenbuconazole. Further information regarding EPA
drinking water models used in pesticide exposure assessment can be
found at http://www.epa.gov/oppefed1/models/water/index.htm . Based on the Pesticide Root Zone Model/Exposure Analysis Modeling
System (PRZM/EXAMS) and Screening Concentration in Ground Water (SCI-
GROW) models, the estimated drinking water concentrations (EDWCs) of
fenbuconazole for acute exposures are estimated to be 24.1 parts per
billion (ppb) for surface water and 0.031 ppb for ground water, for
chronic exposures for non-cancer assessments are estimated to be 16.5
ppb for surface water and 0.031 ppb for ground water, and for chronic
exposures for cancer assessments are estimated to be 11.7 ppb for
surface water and 0.031 ppb for ground water. Modeled estimates of drinking water concentrations were directly
entered into the dietary exposure model. For acute dietary risk
assessment, the water concentration value of 24.1 ppb was used to
assess the contribution from drinking water. For chronic dietary risk
assessment, the water concentration of value 16.5 ppb was used to
assess the contribution from drinking water. For cancer dietary risk
assessment, the water concentration of value 11.7 ppb was used to
assess the contribution from drinking water. 3. From non-dietary exposure. The term ``residential exposure'' is
used in this document to refer to non-occupational, non-dietary
exposure (e.g., for lawn and garden pest control, indoor pest control,
termiticides, and flea and tick control on pets). Fenbuconazole is not
registered for any specific use patterns that would result in
residential exposure. 4. Cumulative effects from substances with a common mechanism of
toxicity. Section 408(b)(2)(D)(v) of FFDCA requires that, when
considering whether to establish, modify, or revoke a tolerance, the
Agency consider ``available information'' concerning the cumulative
effects of a particular pesticide's residues and ``other substances
that have a common mechanism of toxicity.''
Fenbuconazole is a member of the triazole-containing class of
pesticides. Although conazoles act similarly in fungi by inhibiting
ergosterol biosynthesis, there is not necessarily a relationship
between their pesticidal activity and their mechanism of toxicity in
mammals. Structural similarities do not constitute a common mechanism
of toxicity. Evidence is needed to establish that the chemicals operate
by the same, or essentially the same, sequence of major biochemical
events. In conazoles, however, a variable pattern of toxicological
responses is found: Some conazoles are hepatotoxic and
hepatocarcinogenic in mice, some induce thyroid tumors in rats, and
some induce developmental, reproductive, and neurological effects in
rodents. Furthermore, the conazoles produce a diverse range of
biochemical events including altered cholesterol levels, stress
responses, and altered DNA methylation. It is not clearly understood
whether these biochemical events are directly connected to their
toxicological outcomes. Thus, there is currently no evidence to
indicate that conazoles share common mechanisms of toxicity and EPA is
not following a cumulative risk approach based on a common mechanism of
toxicity for the conazoles. For information regarding EPA's procedures
for cumulating effects from substances found to have a common mechanism
of toxicity, see EPA's Web site at http://www.epa.gov/pesticides/cumulative .
