consistent with the proposed regulations, these final regulations do
not provide special acceleration rules for an electing corporation in
bankruptcy proceedings. However, to remove any doubt, the final
regulations include non-substantive changes to clearly provide that the
acceleration rules contained therein apply with respect to any electing
corporation regardless of whether the electing corporation is in a
title 11 or similar case at the time a mandatory acceleration event
occurs.

B. Guidance on Built-in Items Commenters made requests for guidance on how the treatment of
built-in items under section 382 interacts with section 108(i). The IRS
and Treasury Department believe that this issue is better addressed in
more general guidance regarding the treatment of built-in items under
section 382. Accordingly, no guidance on this issue is provided in
these final regulations.

C. Adjustments to Earnings and Profits The proposed regulations provide that deferred COD income generally
increases earnings and profits in the taxable year that it is realized,
and deferred OID deductions generally decrease earnings and profits in
the taxable year or years in which the deductions would be allowed
without regard to the deferral rules of section 108(i). The approach
adopted in the proposed regulations reflects the view that an electing
corporation has recognized economic income in the year of the
discharge, enhancing its dividend paying capacity, and has recognized
an economic cost in the year the OID accrues, decreasing its dividend
paying capacity. Therefore, earnings and profits are appropriately
adjusted. The IRS and Treasury Department also recognized that it was
important to provide general guidance regarding the timing for
adjustments to earnings and profits so that an electing corporation
would understand the consequences of making a section 108(i) election.
A question was raised concerning why the proposed regulations did
not provide a rule similar to section 301(e) in conjunction with the
general rule for earnings and profits. The IRS and Treasury Department
do not believe that such a rule is necessary to achieve the purposes of
section 108(i). In addition, because adjustments to earnings and
profits for the relevant years have already been made in accordance
with the proposed regulations (and Rev. Proc. 2009-37 (2009-36 IRB
309)), the IRS and Treasury Department believe that a change to the
earnings and profits rules in these final regulations would be
burdensome. Accordingly, these final regulations adopt these rules of
the proposed regulations without change.
