ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 40 CFR Part 70

[EPA-R07-OAR-2009-0860; FRL-9120-2] Approval and Promulgation of Operating Permits Program; State of
Iowa

AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).

ACTION: Direct final rule. SUMMARY: EPA is taking direct final action to approve a revision to the
Iowa State Operating Permits Program submitted by the State on February
20, 2009. The purpose of this revision is to increase emissions fees
for the Title V Operating Permits Program. EPA is approving this
revision pursuant to section 502 of the Clean Air Act and implementing
regulations.

DATES: This direct final rule will be effective April 30, 2010, without
further notice, unless EPA receives adverse comment by March 31, 2010.
If EPA receives adverse comment, we will publish a timely withdrawal of
the direct final rule in the Federal Register informing the public that
the rule will not take effect.

ADDRESSES: Submit your comments, identified by Docket ID No. EPA-R07-
OAR-2009-0860, by one of the following methods:
1. http://www.regulations.gov . Follow the online instructions for
submitting comments.
2. E-mail: [email protected] .
3. Mail or Hand Delivery: Tracey Casburn, Environmental Protection
Agency, Air Planning and Development Branch, 901 North 5th Street,
Kansas City, Kansas 66101.
Instructions: Direct your comments to Docket ID No. EPA-R07-OAR-
2009-0860. EPA's policy is that all comments received will be included
in the public docket without change and may be made available online at
http://www.regulations.gov , including any personal information
provided, unless the comment includes information claimed to be
Confidential Business Information (CBI) or other information whose
disclosure is restricted by statute. Do not submit through http://www.regulations.gov or e-mail information that you consider to be CBI
or otherwise protected. The http://www.regulations.gov Web site is an
``anonymous access'' system, which means EPA will not know your
identity or contact information unless you provide it in the body of
your comment. If you send an e-mail comment directly to EPA without
going through http://www.regulations.gov , your e-mail address will be
automatically captured and included as part of the comment that is
placed in the public docket and made available on the Internet. If you
submit an electronic comment, EPA recommends that you include your name
and other contact information in the body of your comment and with any
disk or CD-ROM you submit. If EPA cannot read your comment due to
technical difficulties and cannot contact you for clarification, EPA
may not be able to consider your comment. Electronic files should avoid
the use of special characters, any form of encryption, and be free of
any defects or viruses.
Docket: All documents in the docket are listed in the http://www.regulations.gov index. Although listed in the index, some
information is not publicly available, i.e., CBI or other information
whose disclosure is restricted by statute. Certain other material, such
as copyrighted material, will be publicly available only in hard copy
form. Publicly available docket materials are available either
electronically in http://www.regulations.gov or in hard copy at the
Environmental Protection Agency, Air Planning and Development Branch,
901 North 5th Street, Kansas City, Kansas 66101. The Regional Office's
official hours of business are Monday through Friday, 8 to 4:30
excluding Federal holidays. The interested persons wanting to examine
these documents should make an appointment with the office at least 24
hours in advance.
