Rules and Regulations
Federal Register This section of the FEDERAL REGISTER contains regulatory documents
having general applicability and legal effect, most of which are keyed
to and codified in the Code of Federal Regulations, which is published
under 50 titles pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 1510.

The Code of Federal Regulations is sold by the Superintendent of Documents.
Prices of new books are listed in the first FEDERAL REGISTER issue of each
week.

Federal Register / Vol. 78, No. 148 / Thursday, August 1, 2013 /
Rules and Regulations

DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Office of the Secretary

7 CFR Part 6 Adjustment of Appendices to the Dairy Tariff-Rate Import Quota
Licensing Regulation for the 2013 Tariff-Rate Quota Year

AGENCY: Office of the Secretary, USDA. ACTION: Final rule.

SUMMARY: This document sets forth the revised appendices to the Dairy
Tariff-Rate Import Quota Licensing Regulation for the 2013 quota year
reflecting the cumulative annual transfers from Appendix 1 to Appendix
2 for certain dairy product import licenses permanently surrendered by
licensees or revoked by the Licensing Authority.

DATES: Effective Date: August 1, 2013. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Abdelsalam El-Farra, Dairy Import
Licensing Program, Import Policies and Export Reporting Division, U.S.
Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Avenue SW., Stop 1021,
Washington, DC 20250-1021; or by telephone at (202) 720-9439; or by
email at: [email protected] .

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Foreign Agricultural Service, under a
delegation of authority from the Secretary of Agriculture, administers
the Dairy Tariff-Rate Import Quota Licensing Regulation codified at 7
CFR 6.20-6.37 that provides for the issuance of licenses to import
certain dairy articles under tariff-rate quotas (TRQs) as set forth in
the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States. These dairy
articles may only be entered into the United States at the low-tier
tariff by or for the account of a person or firm to whom such licenses
have been issued and only in accordance with the terms and conditions
of the regulation.
Licenses are issued on a calendar year basis, and each license
authorizes the license holder to import a specified quantity and type
of dairy article from a specified country of origin. The Import
Policies and Export Reporting Division, Foreign Agricultural Service,
U.S. Department of Agriculture, issues these licenses and, in
conjunction with U.S. Customs and Border Protection, U.S. Department of
Homeland Security, monitors their use.
The regulation at 7 CFR 6.34(a) states: ``Whenever a historical
license (Appendix 1) is not issued to an applicant pursuant to the
provisions of Sec. 6.23, is permanently surrendered or is revoked by
the Licensing Authority, the amount of such license will be transferred
to Appendix 2.'' Section 6.34(b) provides that the cumulative annual
transfers will be published in the Federal Register. Accordingly, this
document sets forth the revised Appendices for the 2013 tariff-rate
quota year.
