List of Subjects in 21 CFR Part 573 Animal feeds, Food additives.

Therefore, under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and under
authority delegated to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs and
redelegated to the Center for Veterinary Medicine, 21 CFR part 573 is
amended as follows:

PART 573--FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED IN FEED AND DRINKING WATER OF
ANIMALS

0
1. The authority citation for 21 CFR part 573 continues to read as
follows:

Authority: 21 U.S.C. 321, 342, 348. 0
2. Revise Sec. 573.480 to read as follows:

Sec. 573.480 Formic acid. The food additive, formic acid, may be safely used in accordance
with the following conditions:
(a) The additive is used as a preservative in hay crop silage in an
amount not to exceed 2.25 percent of

the silage on a dry weight basis or 0.45 percent when direct cut, as
follows:
(1) The top foot of silage stored should not contain formic acid
and
(2) Silage should not be fed to livestock within 4 weeks of
treatment.
(b) The additive is used or intended for use as a feed acidifying
agent, to lower the pH, in complete swine feeds at levels not to exceed
1.2 percent of the complete feed.
(1) The additive consists of not less than 85 percent formic acid
(CAS 64-18-6).
(2) The additive meets the following specifications:
(i) Free methyl alcohol not to exceed 1,000 parts per million
(ppm);
(ii) Methyl formate not to exceed 1,000 ppm; and
(iii) Moisture not to exceed 15 percent.
(3) To assure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other
information required by the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the
label and labeling shall contain:
(i) The name of the additive.
(ii) Adequate directions for use including a statement that formic
acid must be uniformly applied and thoroughly mixed into complete swine
feeds and that the complete swine feeds so treated shall be labeled as
containing formic acid.
(4) To assure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other
information required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and
paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the label and labeling shall contain:
(i) Appropriate warnings and safety precautions concerning formic
acid (85 percent formic acid).
(ii) Statements identifying formic acid (85 percent formic acid) as
a corrosive and possible severe irritant.
(iii) Information about emergency aid in case of accidental
exposure.
(A) Statements reflecting requirements of applicable sections of
the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA), and the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration's (OSHA) human safety
guidance regulations.
(B) Contact address and telephone number for reporting adverse
reactions or to request a copy of the Material Safety Data Sheet
(MSDS).
