In states where the MCO has responsibility for offering all
medical/surgical and MH/SUD benefits, we noted in the proposed rule
that compliance with our proposal would mean that the MCO is
responsible for undertaking the parity analysis and working with the
state on changes found to be necessary to the MCO contract for it to be
compliant with parity requirements. Underlying our proposal was an
anticipation that states would need to include contract provisions in
these MCO contracts to make sure they can see the results of the parity
analysis completed by the MCO and have adequate oversight of the
program to ensure that enrollees are receiving services in compliance
with these rules so they can be in compliance with the rules as amended
in Sec. 438.920(b)(2). In states where some or all MH/SUD benefits are
provided to MCO enrollees through PIHPs, PAHPs, or FFS, we proposed in
Sec. 438.920(b)(1) that the state would have the responsibility for
undertaking the parity analysis across these delivery systems and
determining if the existing benefits and any financial or treatment
limitations are consistent with MHPAEA. The state, based on this
analysis, would have to make the necessary changes to ensure compliance
with parity requirements for its Medicaid MCO enrollees. We also
proposed in Sec. 438.920(b)(1) that the state provide documentation of
its compliance with this analysis to the general public within 18
months of the effective date of this rule. For ABPs and CHIP state plans, we proposed to require states to
apply the provisions of this rule across all delivery systems to ensure
that beneficiaries have access to MH/SUD benefits in every
classification in which medical/surgical benefits are provided. If
states offer services through an ABP or CHIP state plan with various
delivery systems (managed care and non-managed care), the state must
apply the provisions of the rule across the delivery systems utilized
for its ABP and CHIP state plan. The proposed rule included an example
of how the proposal would apply across the delivery system in Medicaid: Example 1. Facts. A Medicaid MCO enrollee can access Medicaid
benefits in the following way at any given time during their MCO
enrollment: The MCO comprehensive benefits include inpatient medical/
surgical benefits; outpatient medical/surgical benefits; emergency for
medical/surgical and MH/SUD benefits; and prescription drugs for
medical/surgical and MH/SUD benefits. The PIHP carve out benefits include inpatient MH benefit
and the outpatient MH benefit. The PAHP carve out benefits include outpatient SUD
benefits. The FFS system provides access to inpatient SUD benefits. For purposes of this example, we assume there are no financial
requirements or treatment limitations
