Comments and Responses One comment was received from an individual expressing support for
the Secretarial Amendment and increased management of the small-mesh
multispecies fishery in general. A second comment simply stated that
`I'm not sure this is a good idea,' without further explanation. For
the reasons stated above, this rule is necessary and appropriate to
bring the small-mesh multispecies fishery into compliance with the
Magnuson-Stevens Act requirements concerning ACLs and AMs.

Changes From the Proposed Rule As described above, we are implementing a change in the TAL
calculations, based on updated information from the Council's PDT.
A technical correction to the regulations at 50 CFR 648.88, and the
corresponding prohibition at Sec. 648.14(k)(15)(ii)(C) is also being
implemented through this rule. This change is necessary to remove the
confusion regarding which species a vessel issued a ``non-regulated''
Northeast multispecies permit may land. Specifically, there may be
confusion regarding ocean pout, which is not, by definition, a
``regulated species,'' but is not one of the species that a vessel
issued a ``non-regulated'' permit may land.

Classification The Administrator, Northeast Region, NMFS, determined that the
Secretarial Amendment to the Northeast Multispecies FMP is necessary
for conservation and management of the small-mesh multispecies fishery
and that it is consistent with the Magnuson-Stevens Act and other
applicable laws.
This final rule has been determined to be not significant for
purposes of Executive Order 12866.
Pursuant to section 604 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA),
this final rule includes a FRFA in support of the Secretarial Amendment
analyzing the rule's impact on small entities. This FRFA incorporates
the IRFA, a summary of the significant issues raised by the public
comments in response to the IRFA, NMFS' responses to those comments,
relevant analyses in the Amendment and its EA, and a summary of the
analyses completed to support the action implemented through this rule.
A copy of the analyses done in the Amendment and EA is available from
the Northeast Regional Administrator (see ADDRESSES). A summary of the
IRFA was published in the proposed rule for this action and is not
repeated here. A description of why this action was considered, the
objectives of, and the legal basis for this rule is contained in the
preamble to the proposed rule and this final rule and is not repeated
here.
