The agency believes that the theft rate reduction could be the
result of several factors including the increased use of standard
antitheft devices (i.e., immobilizers), vehicle parts marking,
increased and improved prosecution efforts by law enforcement
organizations and increased public awareness measures.
On Wednesday, June 10, 2009, NHTSA published the preliminary theft
rates for CY 2007 passenger motor vehicles in the Federal Register (74
FR 27493). The agency tentatively ranked each of the MY 2007 vehicle
lines in descending order of theft rate. The public was requested to
comment on the accuracy of the data and to provide final production
figures for individual vehicle lines. The agency used written comments
to make the necessary adjustments to its data. As a result of the
adjustments, some of the final theft rates and rankings of vehicle
lines changed from those published in the June 2009 notice. The agency
received written comments from Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. (VW)
and Nissan North America, Inc. (Nissan).
In its comments, VW informed the agency that the entries for the
Audi RS4, Audi A8, Audi A4/A4 Quattro/S4/S4 Avant and Audi RS4 were
listed with incorrect manufacturer designations. The final theft data
has been revised to reflect that Audi is the manufacturer for

the Audi RS4, Audi A8, Audi A4/A4 Quattro/S4/S4 Avant and Audi RS4
vehicles.
Additionally, Nissan informed the agency that its Nissan Xterra and
Versa vehicle lines were not listed in the agency's June 2009
publication of preliminary data. Upon review, the agency found that the
Xterra vehicle line has a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) over 6,000
pounds. Therefore, because the scope of the Federal Motor Vehicle Theft
Prevention Standard applies to only vehicles with a GVWR of 6,000
pounds or less, the Nissan Xterra was not included on the agency's
publication. The agency also notes that the Nissan Versa was
erroneously omitted from the publication of preliminary theft data and
therefore, has corrected the final theft data to reflect the theft rate
information for the Nissan Versa. As a result of this correction, the
Nissan Versa is ranked No. 95 with a theft rate of 1.3216.
Further reanalysis of the theft rate data also revealed that the
production volume listed for the Pontiac G5 was incorrect. The
production volume for the Pontiac G5 has been corrected and the final
theft list has been revised accordingly. As a result of the correction,
the Pontiac G5 previously ranked No. 94 with a theft rate of 1.3216 is
now ranked No. 2 with a theft rate of 11.2523.
Review of the theft rate data also revealed that the Chrysler
Crossfire was not included on the publication of preliminary theft
data. NHTSA has corrected the final theft data to include the Chrysler
Crossfire. As a result of this correction, the final theft list has
been revised accordingly. The Chrysler Crossfire, previously omitted,
is now ranked No. 193 with a theft rate of 0.0000.
The following list represents NHTSA's final calculation of theft
rates for all 2007 passenger motor vehicle lines. This list is intended
to inform the public of calendar year 2007 motor vehicle thefts of
model year 2007 vehicles and does not have any effect on the
obligations of regulated parties under 49 U.S.C. Chapter 331, Theft
Prevention.
