D. Regulatory Analyses We developed this final rule after considering numerous statutes
and executive orders related to rulemaking. Below we summarize our
analyses based on a number of these statutes or executive orders.

1. Regulatory Planning and Review This rule is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f)
of Executive Order 12866, Regulatory Planning and Review, as
supplemented by Executive Order 13563, Improving Regulation and
Regulatory Review, and does not require an assessment of potential
costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of Order 12866 or under
section 1 of Executive Order 13563. The Office of Management and Budget
has not reviewed it under those Orders.
Bridge operating statistics provided by the bridge owner during
2009-2010, show significantly fewer drawspan operations than nearby
bridges at Georgiana Slough, Tyler Island and Walnut Grove due to
greater vertical clearance provided by the Freeport drawbridge.

2. Impact on Small Entities The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (RFA), 5 U.S.C. 601-612, as
amended, requires federal agencies to consider the potential impact of
regulations on small entities during rulemaking. The term ``small
entities'' comprises small businesses, not-for-profit organizations
that are independently owned and operated and are not dominant in their
fields, and governmental jurisdictions with populations of less than
50,000. The Coast Guard received no comments from the Small Business
Administration on this rule. The Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C.
605(b) that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a
substantial number of small entities.
This rule will adjust an existing advance notice requirement for
bridge openings to more closely conform to the existing needs of
navigation, while allowing the bridge owner to reduce bridge operation
costs, as documented by the statistics provided by the bridge owner.
Vessels that can safely transit under the bridge while in the closed to
navigation position, may continue to do so at any time.
