Statutory Instruments
Northern Ireland The Northern Ireland (Stormont Agreement and Implementation Plan) Act 2016 (Commencement) Regulations 2016
Made20th December 2016

The Secretary of State, in exercise of the power conferred by section 11(4) of the Northern Ireland (Stormont Agreement and Implementation Plan) Act 20161, makes the following Regulations.

Citation1.
These Regulations may be cited as the Northern Ireland (Stormont Agreement and Implementation Plan) Act 2016 (Commencement) Regulations 2016.

Provisions coming into force2.
The following provisions of the Northern Ireland (Stormont Agreement and Implementation Plan) Act 2016 come into force on the day on which the agreement relating to paramilitary activity enters into force2—

section 1 (the Commission); section 2 (exercise of functions);

section 3 (legal privileges etc); section 4 (interpretation and supplementary provision), and

section 5 (conclusion of the Commission’s work).

James Brokenshire Secretary of State
Northern Ireland Office
20th December 2016

EXPLANATORY NOTE
(This note is not part of the Regulations)
These Regulations bring into force sections 1 to 5 of the Northern Ireland (Stormont Agreement and Implementation Plan) Act 2016 (c. 13) (“the Act”), which give domestic effect to the Independent Reporting Commission. These Regulations bring those provisions into force on the day on which the Agreement between the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of Ireland Establishing the Independent Reporting Commission, dated 13th September 2016 (“the Agreement”), enters into force. A copy of the Agreement is, and the date on which it enters into force will be, published on the relevant page of UK Treaties Online which can be found at this link: https://www.gov.uk/uk-treaties. A copy of the Agreement and confirmation of whether it is in force can also be obtained by writing to the Northern Ireland Office, 1 Horse Guards Road, London, SW1A 2HQ. All of the other provisions of the Act are already in force, having come into force on Royal Assent or two months after Royal Assent (see section 11 of the Act).
