Part 2 of these Regulations sets out the Secretary of State's functions which are those of the competent authority in respect of Union importers into Northern Ireland, and of a Member State insofar as they relate to Northern Ireland, under the EU Regulation. It also provides that the Secretary of State may authorise any person to carry out the Secretary of State's functions as competent authority, and for the disclosure and exchange of information.

Part 3 deals with enforcement, and provides for the production of information, entering premises, and inspection of documents or information for the purposes of carrying out the Secretary of State's functions under these Regulations.

Part 4 and the Schedule provide for the Secretary of State to impose civil sanctions where Union importers fail to comply with a notice requiring the production of information or otherwise knowingly, recklessly or without reasonable excuse fail to cooperate with the Secretary of State in the exercise of the powers under Part 3.

Part 5 makes provision for the service of notices and requires the Secretary of State to review these Regulations within five years and at intervals of five years thereafter.

The Schedule also requires the Secretary of State to publish guidance about the use of civil sanctions under these Regulations.

An impact assessment has not been carried out for these Regulations as impact assessments are not required in respect of statutory instruments necessary to meet the terms of the Northern Ireland Protocol. However, a “de minimis” assessment was conducted to understand the impact of the Regulations on business and no significant costs to business or the voluntary sector are foreseen as a result of the Regulations. A full impact assessment of the EU Regulation was carried out at an EU level. A Justice Impact Assessment has been conducted with the Department of Justice for Northern Ireland. The Explanatory Memorandum is published alongside these Regulations on
www.legislation.gov.uk
